so leading up to Avengers infinity war
I'm gonna be recapping in detail what
has already transpired in the Marvel
Cinematic Universe phase by phase this
is nerdy rivers MCU movie marathon first
up is phase one which consists of six
movies and they set the tone for the MCU
being comprised mainly of origin stories
for the heroes many have grown to love
so to kick off phase 1 of the MCU
everyone was introduced to Iron Man in
2008 and this was Marvel Studios debut
film so no one knew how successful this
would be this movie centers on the
origin story of Tony Stark showing why
he initially created his Iron Man suit
after he was captured by a terrorist
organization and they forced him to
build one of his prototype hi-tech
missiles Stark brilliantly comes up with
an escape plan after has returned to the
United States he vows to stop all weapon
manufacturing within his company going
against the wishes of his closest
business partner Obadiah Stane it is
revealed this stain was the men behind
Starks initial abduction and has been
making backdoor deals with terrorists
Stark goes on to defeat staying in an
awesome battle then going against all
stereotypical superhero ideals he
reveals to the world that the man inside
that Iron Man suit is him because who
really needs secret identities this
movie was also the first MCU film to
contain one of Marvel's iconic
post-credit scenes showing shield
director Nick Fury essentially recruit
Tony Stark to become an Avenger next up
was the Incredible Hulk which also came
out in 2008 after Ironman this shows the
story of Bruce Banner who has been on
the run from general Thunderbolt Ross
general Ross sends a special force to
capture Banner after he discovers his
location in Brazil the leader in that
special force Emil Blonsky was injured
in the confrontation and later consumes
a serum that turns him into the
abomination
once Banner reluctantly Hulk's out they
Duke it out in the streets of Harlem
this movie concludes with banner fling
once again isolating himself from the
populated world so he wouldn't hurt
anyone also general Ross is approached
by
start where he tells him that a special
team is being assembled it's also
important to note that recast can make
things confusing but Bruce banners
character has since been recasted from
Edward Norton to Mark Ruffalo this may
be why this film is often swept under
the rug even though it's still a pretty
silent movie
next up fans get the sequel for their
favorite genius billionaire playboy
philanthropist and Iron Man 2 this shows
a story of a vengeful Russian physicist
Ivan Vanko wanting to kills Tony Stark
for what Stark's father did to thangkas
father yeah he's a pretty confused
individual but this movie was the first
Marvel movie to feature numerous
prominent Marvel characters introducing
Black Widow and also reintroducing
Colonel James Rhodes aka war machine
into the universe anyways this movie
focuses on Tony Stark dealing with a
blood poisoning that's slowly killing
him all what he's juggling with the u.s.
pressuring him to share his advanced
technology and Benko actively try and
kill him
ultimately director Nick Fury gives Tony
a gift that his father Howard Stark left
for him it's the key to creating a new
element which Tony needs to cure his
poison blood to start reluctantly teamed
up with his close friend Colonel Rhodes
and they stopped Ivan Vanko together in
this movie's post-credit scene an agent
of shield Phil Coulson discovers Thor's
hammer Mjolnir in a crater in New Mexico
Marvel Studios fourth movie introduced
the Asgardian god of thunder Thor
this was Marvel's first time
establishing that there was life beyond
Earth in their universe this movie shows
the origin story of door who is about to
ascend to the throne as king of Asgard
his coronation is crashed by the frost
giants who have broken into the
Asgardian vault after their attack was
stopped the door went to revenge so he
gathered his friends and set off for
their planet of jetan hive
Thor's father Odin ends up rescuing door
and upset by his son's rash actions he
strips door of his powers and banishes
him to earth shortly after Odin enters a
god-like coma per-say
and Thor's brother Loki is now the king
of Asgard it was revealed later that
Loki was the one who purposely led the
frost giants into Asgard and then he
sends a Decepticon to earth to kill a
boar I'm kidding
or am I so Loki sends the destroyer to
kill Thor Thor eventually proves himself
worthy enough to hold me owner once
and destroys the destroyer once the door
returns to Asgard after learning the
truth he puts a stop to Loki's schemes
and wisely decides that he's not ready
to take on the mantle of King just yet
in this movie's post-credit scene for
the first time and infinity stone is
revealed unknowingly so even the diehard
fans The Empty use fifth movie was
Captain America the First Avenger this
movie was special because it took place
before the previous Marvel movies being
set in the 1940s this shows a story of
Steve Rogers aka Captain America a small
fragile young man who had a burning
desire to prove himself and serve his
country in the military he didn't meet
many qualifications but his best friend
James Bucky Barnes did filling useless
and attempting to become a soldier with
different names many times he is given a
chance by a dr. Erskine who allows him
the opportunity to join the good doctor
had ulterior motives and I'm not saying
that sarcastically he was actually a
good man
the doctor had developed a super soldier
program and wanted Rogers to receive
this Super Soldier Serum because he was
a good man
and the serum was notorious for
increasing the personality traits of
whoever took it whether they be good or
bad on the other end of that spectrum
was the Red Skull who also consumed this
serum or a version of the serum but
unlike Rogers was an evil person so he
just became more evil the Red Skull who
was in charge of Hydra a Nazi division
was attempting to control the power of
the tesseract to manufacture new
advanced weapons the tesseract is the
first Infinity stone brought into play
in the Marvel Cinematic Universe while
the Red Skull is scheming Steve Rogers
receives his iconic near indestructible
shield from Howard Stark who is Tony's
father in the finale of this film while
Captain America and his Howling
Commandos are trying to stop the Red
Skull from dropping bombs in major
cities Rogers his best friend Bucky
appears to die after falling off a train
and Rogers is also presumed to be dead
after sacrificing himself piloting one
of the Bombers into frozen waters next
thing Rogers knows he's waking up in a
weird hospital room only to run outside
and be in the middle of present-day Time
Square New York he is greeted by shield
director Nick Fury who informs Rogers
that he's been in an ice induced coma
for the past 70 years
in this movies post credit scene very
ask Captain America to join in on a
mission that will save the world and
that loan lasts a moment fans were
waiting for since Nick Fury first began
recruiting
the Avengers finally assembled into
theatres in 2012 this movie starts with
Loki the brother of Thor stealing the
tesseract from a hidden shield facility
once Loki escaped with the tesseract
director Nick Fury reactivated his
Avengers initiative and sent Agent
Coulson and Black Widow to recruit Iron
Man and Bruce Bennett while director
fury went on to recruit Captain America
shield quickly gets the location of Loki
and Germany and Captain America meets
Iron Man for the first time as they team
up to capture Loki while in transit to
shield captivity Thor arrives in
dramatic fashion from Asgard to sees his
brother from his captors leading to a
huge confrontation after cap breaks up
the scuffle Thor agrees to accompany
them back to the shield Helicarrier it's
revealed that Loki planned to get
captured all alone and he ends up
escaping leaving the Avengers in
disarray after he murders Agent Coulson
Loki's plans have just begun as he opens
a wormhole over New York City leading to
an all-out invasion by the Chitauri army
in one of the most incredible sequences
in comic book movie history
The Avengers come together for the first
time while this epic battle is going on
the world security council orders that a
nuclear missile be sent to New York City
Iron Man is able to redirect this
nuclear missile into the wormhole which
destroys the Chatard mothership causing
them to shut down once the whole
hilariously subdues Loki the Avengers
gather as Thor textbook Loki and the
tesseract back to Asgard keeping the
momentum going in this movie's
post-credit scene the mad Titan Thanos
is revealed for the first time after he
was told about what happened on earth
also the Avengers gather up for a post
battle militia warmer because you know
metabolism alright so what was your
favorite movie in phase 1 of the MCU
I want to make sure everyone is primed
and ready for Avengers infinity war so
be sure to tell my notifications on it
and stay tuned tomorrow for the recap of
Phase two also if you're already caught
up on the MCU be sure to go check out my
recent video on the last known location
of the Infinity stones right here if you
enjoyed this video give it a big thumbs
up share it with your friends and don't
forget to subscribe to
more awesome content like this until
next time nerdy river we out here